[MUSIC]
So in this video,
I will go through Springleaf data,
it was a competition on Kaggle.
In that competition,
the competitors were to
predict whether a client will respond to
direct mail offer provided by Springleaf.
So presumably,
we'll have some features about client,
some features about offer, and we'll
need to predict 1 if he will respond and
0 if he will not, so let's start.
We'll first import some libraries in here,
define some functions,
it's not very interesting.
And finally, let's load the data and
train our test one, and
do a little bit of data overview.
So the first thing we want to know about
our data is the shapes of data tables,
so let's bring the train shape,
and test that test shape.
What we see here, we have one
150,000 objects, both in train and
test sets, and about 2000
features in both train and test.
And what we see more than,
we have one more feature in train, and
as humans, just target can
continue to move the train.
So we should just keep it in mind and
be careful, and
drop this column when we feed our models.
So let's examine training and test,
so let's use this function had
to print several rows of both.
We see here we have ID column, and
what's interesting here is that I see in
training we have values 2, 4, 5,
7, and in test we have 1, 3, 6, 9.
And it seems like they
are not overlapping, and
I suppose the generation
process was as following.
So the organizers created a huge
data set with 300,000 rules,
and then they sampled at random,
rows for the train and for the test.
And that is basically how we
get this train and test, and
we have this column IG, it is row
index in this original huge file.
Then we have something categorical,
then something numeric,
numeric again, categorical, then
something that can be numeric or binary.
But you see has decimal part,
so I don't know why,
then some very strange values in here,
and again, something categorical.
And actually,
we have a lot of in between, and yeah,
we have target as the last column
of the train set, so let's move on.
Probably another thing we want to
check is whether we have not a numbers
in our data set, like nonce values,
and we can do it in several ways.
And one way we,
let's compute how many NaNs are there for
each object, for each row.
So this is actually what we do here, and
we print only the values for
the first 15 rows.
And so the row 0 has 25 NaNs,
row 1 has 19 NaN,, and so on, but
what's interesting here,
six rows have 24 NaNs.
It doesn't look like we got it in random,
it's really unlikely to
have these at random.
So my hypothesis could be that
the row order has some structure, so
the rows are not shuffled, and
that is why we have this kind of pattern.
And that means that we
probably could use row index
as another feature for
our classifier, so that is it.
And the same, we can do with columns, so
for each column, let's compute how
many NaNs are there in each column.
And we see that ID has 0 NaNs,
then some 0s, and
then we see that a lot of
columns have the same 56 NaNs.
And that is again something really
strange, so either every column will
have 56 NaNs, and so it's not magic,
it's probably just how the things go.
But if we know that there are a lot
of columns, and every column have
more different number of NaNs, then it's
really unlikely to have a lot of columns
nearer to each other in the data
set with the same number of NaNs.
So probably, our hypothesis could
be here that the column order
is not random, so
we could probably investigate this.
So we have about 2,000
columns in this data, and
it's a really huge number of columns.
And it's really hard to work
with this data set, and
basically we don't have any names,
so the data is only mice.
As I told you,
the first thing we can do is
to determine the types of the data,
so we will do it here.
So we're first going to continue train and
test on a huge data frame
like the organizers had,
it will have 300,000 rows.
And then we'll first use
a unique function to
determine how many unique
values each column has.
And basically here we bring
several values of what we found,
and it seems like there are five columns
that have only one unique number.
So we can drop the,
basically what we have here,
we just find them in this line,
and then we drop them.
So next we want to remove
duplicated features, but first,
for convenience,
fill not a numbers with something that
we can find easily later, and
then we do the following.
So we create another data frame of size,
of a similar shape as the training set.
What we do we take
a column from train set,
we apply a label encoder,
as we discussed in a previous video,
and we basically store it
in this new train set.
So basically we get another
data frame which is train,
but label encoded train set.
And having this data frame,
we can easily find duplicated features,
we just start iterating
the features with two iterators.
Basically, one is fixed and the second one
goes from the next feature to the end.
Then we try to compare the columns, the
two columns that we're standing at, right.
And if they are element wise the same,
then we have duplicated columns,
and basically that is how we fill up
this dictionary of duplicated columns.
We see it here, so
we found that variable 9 is duplicated for
input 8, and
variable 18 again is duplicated for
variable 8, and so on, and so we have
really a lot of duplicates in here.
So this loop, it took some time,
so I prefer to dump
the results to disk, so
we can easily restore them.
So I do it here, and
then I basically drop those columns
that we found from
the train test data frame.
So yeah, in the second video,
we will go through some features and
do some work to data set.
[MUSIC]